hello everyone welcome to the IVFs
weekly sync for Monday a 4th of May 2020
happy Star Wars day everyone we are
going to go through the list of high
priority initiatives and then the low
priority initiatives and then ask some
questions and fun things like that
so the first item on our agenda is
upcoming and ship releases I don't think
that anything to talk about here no
ships anything right
you
oh yeah which we shipped ipfs out
it happened is there it's live it's on
the interwebs so if you don't have it
get it and then we have a patch release
being slated for some improvements some
time release and quick so if you are
running experimental quick you may have
noticed some CPU spikes that is being
worked on should hopefully have an RC
out today for that it looks like and
then yeah work on passing it out amazing
stuff nothing from Josiah vest this week
there will be a patch release soon they
think around passing headers to HTTP so
it's as API is over the HTTP pine
there's a fix in the keys just awaiting
reviews and so moving on content routing
and anybody like to give an update yes
did yeah so there is a lovely image
there if you are seeing it that has our
latest metrics you can see the drop in a
lot of the things except for success
rate which went up after the auto five
release so the more the network upgrades
the better that's all gonna get so
upgrade and then this week in addition
to the bugs for the patch release we're
working on things 406 which is quick by
default which depends on some of the
issues that were working through right
now with patches and hopefully we'll
have the ed2 509 key Interop working
this week right
thanks to vasco we now have that
interrupts testing on the lid p2p side
of things
we just need to bubble that up to ipfs
GS ipfs probably isn't going to get the
ability to run keys before ipfs ODOT six
comes out but we're at least going to
make sure that inter up is working there
are some issues with importing exporting
PEM
files that we have to resolve for
jeaious and then yeah billy's interrupt
we've done some preliminary Interop
testing but we need to get that full
suite of tests all set up so our SH is
working through the final benchmarking
therefore go yeah and then you got five
one nine keys there's something in
sureness that still is expecting RSA
keys
I haven't tracked that down yet like
there's a nit somewhere in there where
something's encoding expecting only the
RSA keys and then Hydra things yeah
honest here sorry swarm a second ago now
we can come back to that okay
supplamine k buddy yep so from the
recent go active has open files release
we've released active as desktop which
is running that version and that brings
subdomains on localhost to access the
staff users so hopefully that is that
update is slowly rolling to the desktop
users I've dated subdomain section at
the new Docs portal and we are in the
process of migrating do a blink which is
our like canonical subdomain
public gateway from it like it is a
subdomain gateway however it was
implemented in nginx we are now
migrating it to go up EFS basically
removing custom gen-x hunting and
letting go like you first do its thing
most of things should work I think the
remaining
tasks that my code is tackling is the
seamless redirect which automatically
upgrades CID if you use subdomain
gateway SS path gateway that hopefully
should be resolved soon I did not start
J's ipfs yet it's on on the list so
eventually yeah that's it from my end
Oh
Kamisha called back to Hydra for a quick
update now yeah I was so busy writing
the update that I forgot to join the
cool yeah of course so Hydra this week
has been spent a lot of my time
debugging its kind of effectiveness and
we were finding that the Hydra nodes
were very hyper heads were very very
slow to connect to they were
transferring data really slowly the HTTP
API was the same sort of situation but
there was no like looking at the graphs
there's no CPU or memory problems so
like what was going on I exposed HTTP
API to list some peers to find out if
like there we just had too many
connections and we were super connected
to our Hydra heads which exposed the
problem that was the within the kind of
infrastructure setup in the kubernetes
has this kind of nat auto nap thing for
for no port services whereby like all of
the incoming connections will look like
they come local connections so that
wasn't good because our heads were
thinking that their peers were local
when actually they were not so we fixed
that but then that wasn't really the
problem that was just something else and
like eventually I figured out that the
VMS in digitalocean the standard ones
don't have dedicated CPU they're like
shared CPU and what like digging deeper
into it I spent
with Anton as well looking at this and
it looked like it looked like the the
network was just not processing incoming
connections quick enough and things just
weren't weren't chugging long we had
like queues filling up we were tweaking
that used to make them longer but yeah
it wasn't wasn't working because as soon
as we made the queues the longer the
keys would fill up and and it you know
it wasn't wasn't helping but like and
when we switched to dedicate to CPU
machines things magically works seems
obvious now but I think it was just that
the CP like the the chair CPUs wasn't
like getting through the connections
quick enough for the application so
things were just filling up so right now
they were there's like five hydras
running with 50 heads they seemed pretty
stable to me like anything running they
were running for 24 hours or so and and
they like I'm seeing now that I'm doing
fine profs queries and stuff when I PFS
I'm seeing them appear in the results
they're being queried for information
which is super cool and yeah the only
other thing that I found out this week
is that it's the we tried to make a
datastore that is shared by all hydras
but there's a memory leak somewhere the
memory just goes linearly progresses
until it runs out and then the thing has
to be repeated so there's a there's a
problem there it could be that there's a
memory leak in the datastore the sequel
datastore package or it could be that
the like we're just we just have lots
and lots of queries to do so we're just
running out of the Postgres connections
and there's just a big backlog and
things that thing up I try to add a
connection problem PG bouncer if you've
heard of that but didn't really make any
difference so I switch back to using a
nobody beat and they store temporarily
and that seems that seems ok for now
which is good so we've got stable hydras
running
at the moment and they seem to be
responding to HD queries which is great
so they are in a much better much better
State
so next step is like I need to get
together like a remaining task because
the the Hydra stuff is gonna be on pause
for a couple of weeks or more than a
couple of weeks just well their thing
generates a thing to them yet to really
learning getting sick but and that's the
status update from me thank you for this
thing I know that was really long always
is when she even has a question can we
cut people up he plumbs yes yeah of
course we can for the wall for the
Postgres like when it's leaking yeah
yeah sure sure it's not singing oh cool
I've also started and yeah I'll save it
for another time but yes we go
I would do that when I can
as a brief content routing thing and
related to Dirk's question about how
much the network has upgraded I don't
know the numbers offhand but I think the
answer is not enough in particular there
are some nodes that are running like
gawky fs0 4.14 and 4.20 like a lot of
them which is why figuring out ways to
like more subtly upgrade the network or
allow people to upgrade without leaving
the other guys behind but still kind of
ditching them is important I put a an
issue in the docs last week and
collected some feedback and I'll have
like the outline of an implementation
for how we can do some gradual DHT
network upgrades it isn't github for
people who are interested
when against president nobody will run
0.4
yeah I mean 0.4 dot 14 like I don't even
wanna know what's happening there I just
yeah yeah well I've been told that it's
those people that are giving us like the
500 multi addresses showing up in your
list of you get a peer ID from someone
and a multi address and there's 500 of
them I've been told it's those nuts so I
will be fine getting rid of them
even though they'll still have access we
just you know won't use them for routing
and stuff
okay maybe not on the next initiative
it's it's updates
yeah thanks Alex so in the last week we
just did some performance optimizations
in terms of CPU performance so it should
use a lot less co-routines particularly
for for instances that have a lot of
sessions we also improved the latency
calculation how long it takes to get a
block back from appear which means that
we can kind of give up on a peer faster
and go and ask someone else and next up
we're going to be doing some invariant
testing meaning that basically when we
make changes to bit swap we can kind of
do something similar to a first test and
just make sure that everything's still
working and we're also going to make a
change to the API or add something to
the API so that you can stream your get
box requests which would help avoid
using too many guru teens as well
so sounds great
stream by stream content-based chunking
research improvements yes so exciting
stuff this past week as part of this
research platform it I'm putting
together for being able to test chunking
we separated a library the base allows
you to ingest the stream synchronously
and write it to a circular buffer
maintaining called the weird stuff like
what happens when you get to the end of
the buffer what happens when you have
high contention what happens when
multiple when multiple clients want to
read from the buffer but at the same
time the thing that reads into it wants
to write more stuff this library at this
point has stabilized I basically have
nothing more to add or to change on it I
need best first round of documentation
review I still would like people to get
me an API verdict like do we need to
modify anything at all the people who
are kind of responsible for this are
tacked on the issue in question because
it's less you probably know super
difficult to test the synchronous but
synchronous libraries like that I have
been essentially fuzzing this entire
concert for the past six days now we
basically multiple versions of the same
program running some with
multi-threading sand without sand with a
racist a person without some with nice
priorities and with high priority and
all them keep doing the same thing over
and over again and this would expose
various problems when you know when
there is a corner case and so it doesn't
match correctly but for the
six days nothing has failed I will name
it spinning for another week and then I
basically can say like yeah this thing
is rock solid and we can put it in go
ipfs as the usually just gesture
interface the actual tool itself
I am currently wrapping up writing the
first new chunker essentially I had an
implementation like way way back
something similar and it's proving very
interesting because all the error
checking that I added is now yelling at
me that this is not correct and this is
shorter this is long so this is like
almost there but not quite there yet and
that's pretty much all I have for now
once this particular piece is done
actual platform is ready for primetime
that's what I have
cool so maybe one rush type a festive
yes we have to efforts going on right
now one is to bridge the gap between
what we currently have interests that we
invest in zero to 5.0 improvements we've
been in contact with all of you about
that since before the well before the
launch so we're working through that and
then working towards the UNIX FS
implementation which right now we're
just getting you know looking at ways
rusty ways to do protobuf encoding and
decoding and things like that so that's
that's Burrell right now you know you
can be doing metadata in rest metadata
in rest so the UNIX of s1 v 1.5 metadata
so having file modes and M times ray I
think I think we're targeting 11.0 right
now but that can be part of the
conversation as well as what you know if
that's something that's of use then we
should consider that it's definitely
something from fuse it will be very
useful in the coming months and the
overhead to support it it's actually
going to be minimal so I very strongly
recommend you guys look at 1.5 as it is
in the specular depository because like
the amount of extra water tool you have
to do while you are in the context this
minimum great we will definitely then
thank you oh maybe not Pistor
improvements in Jays land
yes so last we take our aligned with
Jacob about some open questions that I
had in the piercer persistence about we
should go
regarding the proto book and other stuff
and so we with disalignment I got we are
with the persistence for the address
book in proto book ready for review
Jacob already gave some input and I also
have the key book implementation ready
for review so this week I will be
basically addressing these reviews and
working on the vacation integration and
this will be probably the last tasks and
these improvements at least for the
upcoming release of Chesapeake and
that's it
you
cool next one is countable requests into
ffs and this is me
so the PR is there it's all done it's
just awaiting review and merge and then
releasing it's quite big so it's where
we're going to take a bit of time to
figure to go through it so if anyone
else wants to jump in and help that
would be appreciated
any questions on that
yeah I know I know 413 files okay cool
moving on them the other initiatives so
UNIX FS will be 1.5 in go IP offense
anybody who nobly no there was some
inquiry about how far things are and
YouTube hasn't been a response yet there
are things on the issue because he said
just some problems running which face
RFS may be super useful for him to run
the interface test suite because it has
loads and loads of tests around
meditating so yeah the quality get to
the corner so the next one is the
migration to multi ash keys in the
blobstore
believe Darius meeting scheduled about
this on Thursday and that's that yeah I
guess if Hector's starting to work on
the deer and stuff then maybe that's
going to eat some of his time so yeah
but he's not he's not hundred percent on
that so I guess at least he will be able
to general so it'll probably get most of
its done so the resolution is just like
stick that we have and then we'll just
show otherwise yeah I'd like to I'd like
to push one was quite hard from the J
side as well so that we can ship the
pending improvements because you'll be
ashamed to have to do a migration for
that and then do another one for multi
ashes or maybe not do it or you know
let's just make our minds up and
that would be cool yes a pinning system
revamp is basically still that the PR so
nice to be updated and we're gonna do it
pending the outcome of the meeting on
Thursday about what we're actually doing
with multinationals
and that is it for the extra niche of
the other initiatives we have four
minutes left
does anybody have anything for a design
review proposal stick it in the list if
you do and then organize a meeting with
the people who put their names down next
to it has anybody got any questions I
guess I have a question general question
what is design request meeting and maybe
I can do it off planets that's better
I don't cancel your design reviews
design reviews are basically a time for
us to make decisions yeah so what
happens like people make proposals but
somebody so gets stuck in the guillotine
will just sit down and actually make a
decision on it so if you want that
happen you propose a design review
session you can very clear agenda in a
very clear decision they want to make
everyone gets together the design makes
a decision yeah because it's the
problems otherwise like if you always
think what can happen it's like the
discussion is go on for months even and
no no what makes decision because it's
no forcing point this allows you get a
forcing point in there I'm just make
decision okay thank you that's the
tediousness it's work pretty well a
couple of times we've had to say well
the decision is we don't know what
decision to make here but like these for
several aside did they don't know what
actually like the right decision is
parking lot yes Josh go I profess is
gonna try out to get a get flow like
release model now if you don't familiar
yep the way usually works is if you have
it develop branch walls when it goes
past years like always stable I don't do
that master is their development branch
access but all users are usually used to
that's what we're already doing we
already have a release branch which is
like Carly latest release branch the
main difference here is that we do now
is a master's have a blocked key person
even in for an RC we start the RC we're
gonna off to a release like
whatever version branch and then we're
not gonna add new features that release
branch while we continue I had a new
features master then we're ready to cut
the police we're gonna merge the RC into
the police france tag release there and
then merged the release man branch back
into master now the idea behind this
flow is like right we're switching to a
a fixed release cadence to try to like
get things out throw faster is the past
what would happen is like the candidates
are sit there trucking along building
things and then we goes oh we haven't
cut of release like six months or
whatever this user is like even if like
we don't have everything we want like we
just like keep on saying okay we're
gonna cut of release we let it bake for
a bit because of release we've done as
it keeps pushing keeps the user but
because it's going to be very fast
release kids it's a six-week release
cycle reach release really has nine
weeks total of work in it overlapping a
bit because we switch these kittens we
don't want to have situations were like
well we're an RC because we could meet
RC in two thirds of the time we do like
we're not gonna cut there it's like
we're not the emergency features the
master that's gonna suck so instead
we're gonna be in this mode of like okay
we're constantly emerging to to master
but then we only merge to like the
release branch occasionally
McCausland where's no master but we're
cutting in our seat you have this
release branch running it's gonna be
stable this so can be tricky for us
because I have so many repos we're not
going to keep these different branches
all over our different repos I'm not
sure how to deal with that at the moment
we're always gonna keep on merging and
like that's gonna force us to basically
cut like separate release branches for
all these the repos I don't want to run
get flow over every single thing we have
uh-huh let's do everything in lockstep
as we merge pieces if I put us back
together this will get slightly better
but I don't have monetary buses so makes
it difficult we'll say it's the first
step come
stuff yeah what is old is new again I
love it
most I'll point out we're doing
something quite similar when today
sacrifice and is working well going
pretty good release cadence quick no way
before you go we have to welcome Iraqi
he's joining the team it's his first day
can we get a round of applause in a big
like hello thank you let me hear I'll be
probably bugging you all over the couple
of days
excellent yeah there are no stupid
questions ask just ask ask everyone
fantastic welcome on board welcome
amazing that's here we are over time
this has been the IVFs weekly sync for
the Monday the 4th of May 20-22 you all
in the future